migrate offline transactions refs from cookbook (#295)
solana-foundation/developer-content: content/cookbook/transactions/offline-transactions.md

---
title: Offline Transactions
sidebarSortOrder: 7
description: Learn how to create and sign transactions offline.
---

## Sign Transaction

To create an offline transaction, you have to sign the transaction and then
anyone can broadcast it on the network.

```typescript filename="sign-transaction.ts"
import {
  clusterApiUrl,
  Connection,
  Keypair,
  Transaction,
  SystemProgram,
  LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,
  Message,
} from "@solana/web3.js";
import * as nacl from "tweetnacl";
import * as bs58 from "bs58";

// to complete a offline transaction, I will seperate them into four steps
// 1. Create Transaction
// 2. Sign Transaction
// 3. Recover Transaction
// 4. Send Transaction

> (async () => {

Reviewer: You can just use `esrun` for this and skip needing the IIFE.

  });

  // Transfer 0.01 SOL from Alice -> Bob
  transaction.add(
    SystemProgram.transfer({
      fromPubkey: alicePublicKey,
      toPubkey: bobKeypair.publicKey,
      lamports: 0.01 * LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,
    }),
  );

  // Transfer 1 token from Bob -> Alice
  transaction.add(
    createTransferCheckedInstruction(
      bobTokenAddress, // source
      tokenAddress, // mint
      aliceTokenAccount.address, // destination
      bobKeypair.publicKey, // owner of source account
      1 * 10 ** tokenMint.decimals, // amount to transfer
      tokenMint.decimals, // decimals of token
    ),
  );

  // Partial sign as Bob
  transaction.partialSign(bobKeypair);

  // Serialize the transaction and convert to base64 to return it
  const serializedTransaction = transaction.serialize({
    // We will need Alice to deserialize and sign the transaction
    requireAllSignatures: false,
  });
  const transactionBase64 = serializedTransaction.toString("base64");
  return transactionBase64;

  // The caller of this can convert it back to a transaction object:
  const recoveredTransaction = Transaction.from(
    Buffer.from(transactionBase64, "base64"),
  );
})();
```

## Durable Nonce

> `RecentBlockhash` is an important value for a transaction. Your transaction will
> be rejected if you use an expired recent blockhash (after 150 blocks). You can
> use `durable nonce` to get a never expired recent blockhash. To trigger this
> mechanism, your transaction must
> 
> 1. use a `nonce` stored in `nonce account` as a recent blockhash
> 2. put `nonce advance` operation in the first instruction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`recentBlockhash` is an important value for a transaction. Your transaction will
be rejected if you use an expired blockhash (older than 150 blocks). Instead of a 
recent blockhash, you can use a durable nonce, which never expires. To 
use a durable nonce, your transaction must:

1. use a `nonce` stored in `nonce account` as a recent blockhash
2. put `nonce advance` operation in the first instruction
```

Reviewer: The English here was very odd. 'expired recent blockhash' doesn't quite make sense. This should fix it.

  );
  await connection.confirmTransaction(airdropSignature);

  const nonceAccountAuth = Keypair.generate();

  let nonceAccount = Keypair.generate();
  console.log(`nonce account: ${nonceAccount.publicKey.toBase58()}`);

  let tx = new Transaction().add(
    // create nonce account
    SystemProgram.createAccount({
      fromPubkey: feePayer.publicKey,
      newAccountPubkey: nonceAccount.publicKey,
      lamports:
        await connection.getMinimumBalanceForRentExemption(
          NONCE_ACCOUNT_LENGTH,
        ),
      space: NONCE_ACCOUNT_LENGTH,
      programId: SystemProgram.programId,
    }),
    // init nonce account
    SystemProgram.nonceInitialize({
      noncePubkey: nonceAccount.publicKey, // nonce account pubkey
      authorizedPubkey: nonceAccountAuth.publicKey, // nonce account authority (for advance and close)
    }),
  );

  console.log(
    `txhash: ${await sendAndConfirmTransaction(connection, tx, [feePayer, nonceAccount])}`,
  );
})();
```

### Get Nonce Account

```typescript filename="get-nonce-account.ts"
import {
  clusterApiUrl,
  Connection,
  PublicKey,
  Keypair,
  NonceAccount,
} from "@solana/web3.js";

(async () => {
  // connection

>   const connection = new Connection(clusterApiUrl("devnet"), "confirmed");

Reviewer: This is up to you, but I think we can do without comments like this where the code is very obvious.

  const nonceAccountPubkey = new PublicKey(
    "7H18z3v3rZEoKiwY3kh8DLn9eFT6nFCQ2m4kiC7RZ3a4",
  );

  let accountInfo = await connection.getAccountInfo(nonceAccountPubkey);
  let nonceAccount = NonceAccount.fromAccountData(accountInfo.data);
  console.log(`nonce: ${nonceAccount.nonce}`);
  console.log(`authority: ${nonceAccount.authorizedPubkey.toBase58()}`);
  console.log(`fee calculator: ${JSON.stringify(nonceAccount.feeCalculator)}`);
})();
```

### Use Nonce Account

```typescript filename="use-nonce-account.ts"
import {
  clusterApiUrl,
  Connection,
  PublicKey,
  Keypair,
  Transaction,
  SystemProgram,
  NonceAccount,
  LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,
} from "@solana/web3.js";
import * as bs58 from "bs58";

(async () => {
  // Setup our connection and wallet
  const connection = new Connection(clusterApiUrl("devnet"), "confirmed");
  const feePayer = Keypair.generate();

  // Fund our wallet with 1 SOL
  const airdropSignature = await connection.requestAirdrop(
    feePayer.publicKey,
    LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,
  );
  await connection.confirmTransaction(airdropSignature);

>   // G2FAbFQPFa5qKXCetoFZQEvF9BVvCKbvUZvodpVidnoY

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this comment is.

  const nonceAccountAuth = Keypair.fromSecretKey(
    bs58.decode(

>       "4NMwxzmYj2uvHuq8xoqhY8RXg63KSVJM1DXkpbmkUY7YQWuoyQgFnnzn6yo3CMnqZasnNPNuAT2TLwQsCaKkUddp",

Reviewer: Keeping secret keys in source code is bad practice. Maybe use https://github.com/solana-developers/helpers?tab=readme-ov-file#get-a-keypair-from-a-keypair-file instead?

Author: Makes Sense

Author: Will probably have to revisit this example when code-import is enabled,
since nonceAccountAuth keypair was generated earlier.
